# SignGenix

## Problem Statement:

### Following recent statistics, over 360 million people across the globe spent their lives being mute is an inability to speak, often caused by a speech. This is an inevitable matter for those people who can’t express themselves in words through their speech. As we know the number of hearing impaired and speech impaired people in India is around 63 million out of which 50lakh are children and the same numbers on the world scale are much larger. Even it’s hard for them to manage their day-to-day activities. They also find it challenging to communicate with other people using their sign language. Thus this community relies on using sign language for communication, however, only a small percentage of people outside this community that is the number of able people who use sign language is very low, thus making it difficult for people to communicate normally with everyone else, as we know in today’s world almost everyone owns a smartphone and with the rapid development of technology we can use Computer vision machine learning and implement them into mobile applications.
### Our main motive is to build a product that will help the mute community to live their life with more ease. So being in the digital era everyone uses a smartphone in their day-to-day life, so why not use this smartphone as a tool for communication for the mute community as well? Thus with this application, we intend to create a two-way communication channel that allows everyone to communicate freely and express their thoughts without knowing the sign language.

